The Inter-American Defense Board (IADB) was first established in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, during the Third Meeting of Consultation of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the 21 American Republics, which were then part of the Pan-American Union, according to Resolution no XXXIX of January 28th, 1942.
As a first step towards the implementation of that Resolution, the Directing Council of the Pan- American Union entrusted the task of specifying the specialty of the officers who would integrate IADB, as well as the location it should be installed, to a Special Committee composed of the Ambassadors of Brazil, Venezuela and Panama in the United States.
The Special Committee proposed that a group of technicians from the Army, Navy and Air Force should also integrate IADB staff. All of them were appointed by the member governments of the Pan-American Union to study and suggest the defense of the continent, due to the threat posed by the powers of the Axis in World War II.
Meanwhile, the Director of the Governing Council of the Pan-American Union determined that the inaugural session of the IADB was to take place on March 30th, 1942, at the Hall of the Americas of the Pan-American Union in Washington DC, United States (nowadays the OAS Main Building). At that place, the provisional seat of the Inter-American Defense Board was established. In turn, the aforementioned date is recognized as one in which the Inter-American Defense Board was formally constituted.
A few months after the inaugural session, the Council established itself in the Federal Reserve Building, where it maintained its activities until September of 1944. At that time, it transferred its permanent offices to the New War Department Building where it remained until 1949.
In August 1949, IADB was installed in the so-called “Rose Palace,” located on the corner of 16th Street and Euclid Street in Washington D.C., where it held its first meeting on October 11th, 1949.
The Board reformed its regulations on June 12th, 1951 and established a structure with a Presidency, a Vice President, a Council of Delegates, as the governing body; a General Staff, as an organ of technical work and a Secretariat, as an administrative body.
